So, there's this MCP plugin called
Claude Context that indexes your entire
code base into a vector database,
meaning your coding agent can get the
exact code it needs quickly without
[music] guessing using grep or glob and
hoping it finds the right file. It even
passes your code with ASTs and uses a
hybrid search approach combining
semantic vectors with keyword matching,
which ends up using 40% less context.
But, it does need a Zilliz Cloud account
and an OpenAI key for embeddings even if
you use Claude Code. So, is the extra
effort and cost worth the token savings?
Hit subscribe and let's find out.
Okay, so Claude Context, not sure about
the name, is made by Zilliz, which is a
company created by the founders of
Milvus, a very performant vector
database. It connects to your agent by
MCP, so this means it can work with any
agent harness and not just Claude Code.
But, it does three pretty complex things
to make your code easily findable.
First, it uses Tree-sitter to pass
through all of the code creating chunks
of functions and classes, and this
supports nine languages including
TypeScript, Python, Rust, and Go. Then,
it uses a custom Merkle DAG to hash each
file with JSON snapshots, meaning it
only re-indexes the files that have
changed and not the whole code base. And
then, when you actually want to search
through the code, it does two different
types of searches at the same time. A
vector search to find the semantic
meaning of the code and a BM25 index
search for exact keyword matching. This
all results in an up to 40% context
reduction, which is a lot for large code
bases. In fact, let's see it in action
by testing it against the VS Code code
base, which has around 1.5 million lines
of code. So, inside the current VS Code
repo, I'm going to be using Open Code
with GLM-5 Turbo because I don't want to
burn through my Claude Pro weekly
limits. And in order to get the MCP
server set up, which you can see over
here, I've already added the relevant
information to my Open Code JSON file.
And for this information over here, you
could run Milvus locally, but I've used
Zilliz Cloud. So, I've got my API key
from over here and I created a cluster,
so this is an AWS cluster, and got the
public endpoint from here. Now, while
we're on clusters, I did try to use the
free one first, but I kept on getting
timeout issues. So, I have to get a
serverless one, which does cost money,
but did work a lot better. Now, once you
have set up the MCP server, make sure
you're running a version of Node below
24, but above or equal to 20. I'm
currently using version 22 just for this
project, and that will give you access
to four MCP tools: index code, search
code, clear index, and get index status.
Now, the first thing you have to do is
index the code base. And we can do that
with this prompt. But, before we hit
enter, let's take a look at how much
money we've already spent on embeddings
from OpenAI, which is just 1 cent and
was for me testing a 23,000 line code
base. We can also see in our cluster we
already have information from the code
base that was indexed. So, now if we
index this code base, it does take some
time and starts the indexing in the
background. At this point, I don't
recommend doing any searches. Now,
because this is a large code base, it
will take a while to index, so I'll come
back later when the indexing is done.
And after about 50 minutes, the indexing
is complete. And we can see we have a
new chunk in our cluster with over
223,000
loaded entries. And for reference, the
code that I was testing with that had
23,000 lines of code has about 1,000
lines of entries and took less than 1
minute to index. And with our OpenAI
usage, we've gone from 1 cent to $1.06,
which is a lot, but I don't imagine
going through 1.5 million lines of code
is something people will do regularly.
Okay, let's see how fast it is to make a
search. Here we have one instance of
Open Code using the Claude Context MCP
server, and here we have one with no MCP
server. So, it'll be using the regular
grep and glob tools to search through
the code. And we'll give it a prompt of
use Claude Context to find the entry
point of when this project starts up.
Let's see how long this takes. Okay, so
it's using the index tool, and now it's
using the search tool, and the whole
thing took about 19 seconds to search
through this whole project and find the
main.ts file. And now we're going to
give this Open Code a similar prompt,
and it finds a response in 14 seconds.
So, it's like for this query, using just
regular GLM is a lot faster. Let's start
a new session, and then I'm going to
give it a new prompt of what function
opens a new untitled document. This one
took a bit longer at 40 seconds and
found the main function with a line
number and used about 23K tokens. And
the other instance did it in 12 seconds
and used 18K tokens, but it looks like
it found a different file. In fact,
Claude Context gives way more
information showing the code and other
files related to opening the editor. So,
I'm going to ask them both to show me
the exact code, and at this point Claude
Context responds in 23 seconds with the
code, and the non-Claude Context Open
Code responds in 49 seconds, almost
double the amount of time. And it gives
you the exact same code as Claude
Context did, which gives me an idea. I'm
going to give it a more broad
generalized prompt of look through the
code and tell me how this project works.
Claude Context finishes in 49 seconds
using 41K tokens, and the other instance
finishes faster and uses less tokens.
But, if we have a look at the output
produced, we can see there's much more
detail from Claude Context giving the
layered architecture and even some
information about the Electron app and
the processes it uses. And the
non-Claude Context option does also give
some architectural information, but it's
not as detailed as the other one. In
fact, I know it doesn't look like it,
but I would say Claude Context is very
good at getting code information up
front quickly in lots of detail. I mean,
take a look at this. So, from this
prompt I asked a follow-up prompt to
tell me more information about the main
process in the Electron app, which it
stated up here. So, after I asked this
prompt, it took about 1 minute and 47
seconds, but look at all that detail.
So, it started out with the boot
sequence and then phase one, so the
service creation and service
initialization. And we've got so much
more from phase two, the code
application app with all the references
to the relevant files. So, we've got
app.ts line 185, and we could keep going
on and on. Whereas, without Claude
Context, Open Code is still going
through all the files using multiple
sub-agents, and this is a bit deceiving
because we can't see exactly how many
tokens each sub-agent is using. But, if
we wait for a bit and come back, we can
see after about 5 minutes Open Code
responds with a lot of information about
the Electron process, but this isn't as
much as what Claude Context provided,
and it did take five times longer. Now,
yes, maybe if I used a smarter model
like Opus 4.7 with high effort, it would
get more information, but it would still
take a long time and use a lot of
tokens. And these are the kind of
differences, so 5 minutes and 1 minute,
that I was seeing when I was testing
before recording with the 23K line code
base. So, in the end, it's difficult to
say who is the clear winner. I mean,
Claude Context did always provide more
detail, but it wasn't always the fastest
and the most token efficient. And for
large code bases, it did take a very
long time to index. However, for
average-size code bases, so 20 to 30,000
lines of code, the indexing time is
really quick, and the difference in
detail when it comes to results is very
apparent. In fact, I would say I would
much rather use Claude Context for
average-size code bases than use it on
large code bases. So, that's something
to think about. But, to be honest, this
is more of a great sales tool for Zilliz
because before using Claude Context, I
had never heard of them, and now they
have a new paying customer. But, even
though it did take a while to set up and
indexing large code bases took a very
long while. As someone who regularly
goes through open-source code bases and
asks questions, I think this is a tool
I'm going to be using a lot more. I
mean, for an average-size code base, the
serverless plan isn't too expensive as
the OpenAI embeddings don't cost too
much either. So, I'm happy to take the
hit. Speaking of data retrieval and AI,
if you want to learn how to build a
really good rag system from scratch that
actually works, then check out this
video from Andras. And if you're a Star
Wars fan, you're especially going to
like this video.